We're now going to move to the next
exercise where we'll look at forms and
form validation.
In particular, what kind of support
Angular provides for us for
forms as well as validating the forms
before submission to the server.
So, we can do a lot of client side
validation of the information of
the forms, even before the information
is actually submitted to the server,
so many of the typical errors that
would be caused by forms can easily be
caught by doing client side validation.
We're gonna look in this
lesson at how we will go about
implementing these in Angular.
Before we go ahead with the exercise,
let's take a look at our
contactus.html page,
what we have just downloaded and
see the format.
So as you browse through it you
see that the location information.
The address is available to us.
But in particular,
we are interested in this Feedback
form that we created earlier.
This Feedback form has the First Name,
the Last Name, the Contact telephone
number both the Area code and
the Telephone number, the email address.
And then this check box which
the user can check in order to
specify whether he or
she can be contacted or not.
And then this field that allows
us to select in what way the user
prefers to be contacted.
And then the feedback text area box where
the user can type in their comments and
then click on the send
feedback button here.
Now we're going to enhance this using
Angular forms and form validation.
To get you started you are provided
with an updated contactus.html page.
Download this page and put it into
the app folder of the confusion folder.
Once you have downloaded and placed it
there open the contactus.html page.
You will note that this is similar
to the contact page that we
designed in the Bootstrap course,
except that I have removed
the header information and
the footer information.
So I have just retained only the,
the content part of that particular page.
Because for us in this course
we are specifically interested in dealing
with the content part of the page.
Now, if you recall, in the previous
course, we had designed a feedback form
for the users to submit
feedback to the restaurant.
Now we are gonna go and then try and
activate this form to a certain extent.
We still don't have a server side yet,
but we will try to do form validation,
and then we will enhance this form
using the Angular support for forms.
Once you have downloaded
the contactus.html page,
open it in a text editor of your choice.
Here I have it open in brackets.
So looking at the contents of
this page you can notice that I
have retained just the content part
of the page from the previous course.
We still have the contact
information there and
then we have the form that we
designed in the previous course.
In addition I have updated this page
to use the Angular JavaScript code.
So I have already updated the JavaScript
part of it to use Angular.
In addition,
I'm still going to use the app.js file
to store my controller code for this page.
Going to the top of page,
let's now have Angular take over.
So our app that we designed,
the Con Fusion app is going
to take over this page.
So to the HTML tag I am applying the
ng-app directive with the Con Fusion app.
So with this,
this page now becomes controllable through
the Con Fusion app module, Angular module.
Next go into the body of the page
to the div for the container.
I'm going to apply another
controller class here.
Let me apply the controller
class here next.
So here I am specifying through the
ng-controller directive that the contact
controller is going to control
the entire body of this page.
Now which always means that I need
to implement the contact controller.
Now this contact controller is gonna
control the entire body of this page.
Now going in, I want another controller
which controls just the form
part of this pitch.
So I'm gonna go down to the form and
then where the form starts, I am going
to introduce another controller.
So I have again used
the ng-controllers directive.
And then applied the controller to
the div that contains the form.
Now this controller's name
is Feedback Controller.
So now that I have
introduced two controllers,
now this is in case of one controller
enclosed inside another controller.
So this is nested controllers.
So, the outer controller
is the contact controller.
The inner controller is
the feedback controller.
So, the feedback controller is nested
inside the contact controller.
Now the reason why I use nesting is also
to illustrate another aspect that is
with the scope how you can use
the scope of your parent controller for
storing information.
Now this is where I will
illustrate the use of that.
Switching to the app.js file.
I'm going to now introduce the code for
the two controllers that are included
in the contactus.html page.
So going to the bottom of this page I'm
going to create myself some space here.
So the semicolon that closed off
the controller definition for
the previous controller that I had.
The menu controller that I had.
I'm going to just introduce a few extra
lines there to create myself some
space to introduce a new controller.
I am leaving the semicolon by itself
on a separate line, so this way it is
more easy for me to introduce additional
controllers in the future if I need to.
Now, after this, I'm gonna
introduce the two controllers here.
Now, you can see that I have
introduced the two controllers,
the contact controller and
the feedback controller.
Now look at the structure of the
information that I have introduced here.
Structure of the code that
I've introduced here.
The contact controller with
the scope defined already and
the Feedback Controller with
its own scope defined there.
Within the contact controller
I'm going to introduce
a JavaScript object onto the scope.
Call this feedback.
Now this is the JavaScript object that
I am going to use to keep track of
all the information that I'm
going to type in using the font.
Now, recall that the feedback controller
is nested inside the contact control.
So by the way scope works
whatever I define in
the ContactController will also be
accessible inside the FeedbackController.
So let me introduce the feedback object
to that ContactController's scope.
And this will automatically become
accessible through the FeedbackController,
because it is enclosed inside
the ContactController.
So, introducing the code for
the JavaScript object named feedback.
I have introduced this object with
a few properties already predefined.
The firstName, the lastName that agree
which is a boolean property and
a couple of others.
Now what this means is that
I would now be able to
change them or upgrade them using
the input fields in my form.
So let's now go back to our form and
see how they can do data binding,
two-way data binding between the input
fields and this JavaScript object.
Switching back to the contact of page.
Now I am going to introduce and
include two-way data binding
between the input fields
here in the font and
the JavaScript object that
I just introduced in my
conduct controller.
The first Data binding
that I'm introducing
is between the first name
field that I have here.
First name input field that I have here,
and the first name.
To do that, to the input field,
I am using the ng model to
do the binding with the feedback
dot first name property.
So I specify ng model equal
to feedback.firstName.
Also, I specify this particular
field as a required form
which means that the user needs to fill in
this information before the form becomes
validated for submission.
Similarly, let me do the same thing for
the last name and the remaining fields.
Next, I introduced the same, for
my last name, input field here.
Next for the telephone number field,
I'm going to introduce
another property called the tel.areaCode.
Now this property doesn't
exist in the feedback
object that I defined in my controller,
but
if I introduce the ng model
here then this property will
automatically get cleared then added
into the feedback Java script, object.
So here I am introducing another
java script object which is inside the
feedback object called the tail object.
The tail object has two parts.
One is the area code which keeps track
of the area code of the phone number and
the second field would be
the actual telephone number.
So that needs to be
introduced to the next field.
So here, you can see that I
have tied their feedback dot
tell dot number to the telephone
number input field here.
Next I introduce the email field here.
To introduce that,
I use the engine model to
tie feedback.email and also I specify
that as required field in the form.
So that is tied to the input field, which
allows the user to type in their email.
The next property that I'm going
to use is the checkbox that I
had introduced into the from here.
In the checkbox I am specifying that if
the checkbox is checked then the feedback
agree is going to be set to true.
If the checkbox is not checked,
the feedback agree will be set to false.
So, using the integer model and
I'm tying in the check box to
the feedback directory property
of the feedback object.
And lastly, the text [INAUDIBLE]
that is
available on the form is going to be now
tied to the feedback comments field.
The comments property didn't
exist in the feedback object.
By doing the NG model here,
I'm going to introduce the property
to my feedback object.
Finally, in order to illustrate to you
as the user types in the information
I want to show that JavaScript object is
actually simultaneously getting updated.
So what I have done is I have the div
class on the right hand side of the form,
which was an empty, div there.
I took the feedback object, and
then introduced some code in here.
And this code, will, will
essentially in real time,
track the information.
As you type into the feedback form and
then show it on the right hand side.
Let's now go and
have a look at the form in the webpage and
then see how it gets to work now.
Now, taking a look at the form in the web
page you can now see that the form
is pretty much the same as before,
but on the right hand side you can see
that the current information that you type
into the form is going to be displayed.
Right now the form doesn't
contain any information.
Let's type in something into the form and
then see what happens to the right
side as we type the information in.
So let me first type in my name first,
the First Name.
Note that as I type in the information
to the form, on the right-hand side.
The JavaScript object has been
updated automatically and
then the updated information is
being displayed in the picture.
The reason I introduced the thing on the
right hand side is simply to show you that
form as soon as you start typing in the
two bit data link comes into action and
the information is immediately
reflected to the JavaScript object.
In a real page you wouldn't be introducing
what I introduced on the righthand side.
That is not necessary, but
I just wanted you to see
the similarity between the two sides.
Let's type in my last name.
Now, on the right side I am using
the upper case folder in order type
my last name in all capital letters.
I can type in the area code.
So you can see that the contact
telephone number is introduced there.
And the contact email
information is introduced there.
Now we can click on
the contact button here and
then we can also type in
feedback information here.
Okay, obviously the feedback button
even if you click it nothing is
going to happen because we haven't
activated the form completely yet.
Recall that we have specified
that the first name,
last name, and
the email are required fields.
Now suppose I don't input anything and
try to click on the feedback button.
You can see that the form validation
that is part of HTML file automatically
kicks in to inform me that that
particular field needs to be filled out.
Suppose I fill in the email address
without the correct format and
then click on the feedback.
Then it is going to inform
me that I should have
an at sign at least as
part of an email address.
Similarly if I don't fill in
the first name and then click on
the button it's going to inform me
that I need to fill out the field.
So this is HTML5 form validation
automatically kicking in
to show the validation of the form.
So this prevents the form being submitted
if you specify some of
the fields as required fields.
When we are using Angular to control
the form, I would rather have
Angular do the validation instead
of having the HTML5 validation.
So to the form tag.
I'm going to specify that I don't want
the HTML file validation service,
specify no validate.
Attribute for the form [INAUDIBLE].
In addition, when the,
send feedback button is clicked,
if you're handling the form in Angular,
what you would normally do
is to associate an NG submit
directive with the form as shown with the.
So in this code you can notice that
to the form tag I have given
three more pieces of information.
First, in name to the form, so
I have named the form as feedback font.
The second one is an ng-submit directive.
The ng-submit directive, I have specified
it to be a sendFeedback function.
Meaning that when the submit
button is clicked,
then this will result in a call
to the sendFeedback function,
JavaScript function that I have to
implement in my controller that feedback
that controller that I have
already included in the app.gsi.
In the third part you see me
specify there is no validate.
Meaning that I don't want HTML5 validation
to be done on this from, instead,
I will take care of the validation myself.
Now this also means that I am
gonna take the help of Angular's
form support in order to do my
own validation using Angular.
So how do we go about doing that?
Let's examine that next.
Now we have already seen that
Angular forms support certain
properties that we can examine to find
out some information about the form.
So that's why we gave the form a name so
that Angular state
of identifying of some state of
the form can be used for this purpose.
Now I'm going to leverage that to
introduce some validation in here.
For the first name,
recall that this is a required field,
I'm going to introduce a span
tag here with some information,
this span tag,
which has this ng-show specified here.
Recall we just studied the ng show
directive in the previous lecture.
And also, the second part is
class which is helpblock.
Now I am taking the help off Bootstraps,
form validation support here.
Now when you look at the boot strap
form validation support documentation,
you will see that I can specify
something called the help block.
And then that will be displayed at
the bottom of the input field of the form.
Now using the NG show I am going
to display this information below
the first name input field,
only under circumstances that
the form entry,
the first name form entry is invalid.
So I am checking two properties here,
so for feedbackForm,
I'm saying first name error required.
So this is the way you can
check to ensure that if
that particular entry doesn't have
a valid information input there,
then I should warn the user that the user
needs to input the information there.
The second part I'm checking is
feedback from first name pristine.
What this means is that if the user
has not yet touched the phone
then I will treat that field as pristine,
meaning that nothing has been changed so
that's why I should not be doing
this validation at this moment.
Until the state changes from
pristine to another state.
I will not show this information.
So that's why I'm specifying this
as not feedback from pristine.
Which means that the user has
not touched this field yet.
Like the moment the user
touches the screen and
starts typing the pristine
value will be set to false,
and also the other fields will kick in.
The valid field and so on will become,
those flags will be set.
Now this is one part that
I'm going to introduce.
So this one will be shown only is there
is an error in the user typing it.
In addition, boot straps validation
has this class called has error class.
So if I put the has error class to a form
group div, then, and
activate it under circumstances that
I want to alertly user about errors.
Then, I can ensure that this
particular field will be
displayed in red color to indicate to
the user that there is an error, so
to do that I'm going to
apply that to that font
group that contains this input field for
the first name,
I'm going to apply that using
the Ng class directive.
Now recall we studied ng
class in the previous module.
So here I'm specifying ng
class equal to within braces.
Look at the expression that
I am specifying there.
Has error in Coats.
Meaning that this has error class
will be applied to this div
provided after the colon I supply
a condition to be checked.
The condition says feedback first name,
error required and
not feedback first name pristine.
So this is the same condition that
I used in the span tag below.
So this has-error class will be applied
to this form-group div if
this particular input field has an error.
That means if the user did
not type in the first name.
And the user has touched that field.
So under those circumstances,
the error will be displayed.
I'm going to do the same thing to the last
name and the email and some other fields.
So here I am applying the same
thing to the lastName field.
So here, I'm using
feedbackForm.lastName.$error.required and
lastName.$pristine.
And also the span tag
that I have applied here.
So, meaning that if the user
doesn't type in the last name,
then I'm gonna warn the user saying
last name has not been typed in.
The telephone number is
not a required field so
I'm not going to do any
validation on that.
Although, in principle you could do
validation there saying that the user has
typed in only numbers
not other characters.
For the moment I have shown you the method
you can easily implement that if required.
To me, the more interesting
thing is the email address, for
the email address let me introduce the
error check link or some validation point.
So here I am introducing three tags.
To the font validation.
The first tag I am
checking to make sure that
if the email ID is invalid,
feedback from our email ID.
The email ID that I am using there
is the name of the input
field which I am checking.
Okay, if it is invalid and
the email ID has been touched.
Then I am displaying this glyphic on
glyphic remove form control feedback.
Now what this means is that I
should apply the has feedback
class to my form group to make
sure that this particular
span glyphicon will be displayed
inside the input field of the form.
So I'll display a red cross inside
the input field if the email ID is wrong.
The second span tag that I introduce,
will be activated if
the email address is invalid.
See enter a valid email address.
The third span tag will be activated if
the user does not type in the email ID and
tries to submit the form.
So that's is the third part I am checking.
Now I need to upload
the classes to the phone group.
So, let me introduce the code for
So, to the phone group that includes
the email I am introducing NG class and
note that I am introducing hash error and
hash feedback as well.
So this will be introduced if the feedback
email ID is invalid and
the feedback form is pristine.
So in that case,
I am applying the has error and
has feedback to that field, right?
Another change that I'm
going to make is to select
element that I have
introduced in the fall.
Now, the select element
earlier was a static element.
Now I'm going to take the help
of angular in order to
automatically put in the various
options into the select element.
Also I will show this
select element only when
the user checks the may
we contact you checkbox.
So to do that, first I will
introduce the ng show directive
to the div class that
contains this select element.
So ng show I specify it as feedback agree.
Between study of the user checks
the may we contact you checkbox,
then the select item will be displayed.
If the user does not check then this
option will not be given to the user.
So here I am conditionally
adding elements to the form,
only when it is required for
the user to type in this information.
Now In addition, for
the select field itself,
I'm going to give the options by
setting up a JavaScript object in
the controller and then using that to set
up the options inside the select field.
So let's switch to
the app dot js file now.
And then introduce a java
script object there.
Switching to the app.js file,
now in the contact
controller class I am going to
introduce a JavaScript object
Called as channels.
Now this channels object
contains two parts.
It's an array of Java Script objects.
Each Java Script object
contains a value and a label.
A value and a label.
Now this Java Script object is
what I'm gonna make use of,
to setup the select element in my form.
Now also, that I am hanging it onto
that channels object on the scope.
Also I have introduced
this additional Boolean
variable here called
invalidChannelSelection.
I'm gonna come back to that in a short
while, because when we need to do
the validation on the select,
element, I will leave that in place.
So right now, I'm setting that to false.
Let's go back to the contactus.html page.
Going back to the contactus.html page, I
am now going to make use of the JavaScript
object that I'd just introduced in the app
or JS file to set up this select element.
Now this is where I'm gonna take
the help of Angular's way of
setting up select elements.
For this select element note how I
have modified that selector limit now.
I have removed the options from there,
and then I have retained only one
option there, saying option value,
empty string, Tel.
or Email?
This option will be displayed in the form,
and then when
the user selects one of the two options
[INAUDIBLE] to option will be activated.
Now in addition,
look at how I specified the ng-model here.
The ng-model,
I'm specifying it as feedback, mychannel.
So I am introducing
the two-way data binding to
the mychannel property of
the feedback JavaScript object.
And the mychannel will carry the option
that I select using this select element.
Now, the second part, you'll see
me specifying here is ng-options.
The ng-options is another
directive of Angular.
This one, I am specifying here as
channel.value as channel.label.
So the channel.label, this is the syntax
for specifying for the ng-options.
You can use that when you're
setting up a select element.
So this is how Angular
expects you to specify that.
So I'm specifying channel.value as
channel.label for channel in channels.
Remember, channels is a JavaScript
object that I just
introduced in the app.js
folder in the contact controller.
Now, channel in channels,
this way of looping
through all the objects
of a JavaScript array,
we have seen that used with
ng-repeat directive earlier.
It's the same thing that I'm using here.
So for every channel object that is
part of this channel object array,
I'm going to use the channel.label of it.
And corresponding with the channel.value,
the channel.label will be used as
the option item in my select statement.
And when that option item is selected
the channel value will be assigned to
the value for
this ng-model directive here.
So the mychannel will be set to
the channel.value depending on which one I
select, using this select element.
So, note how Angular comes to
help you in setting up your form.
In addition, for this particular
form group I am specifying
an ng-class as has-error,
invalidChannelSelection.
So, again, has-error, we have seen before,
and invalidChannelSelection,
you saw me introduce this Boolean variable
into the contact controller earlier.
Now, that Boolean variable I'm gonna use
to control whether I'm gonna show this
field as a field in error or
a normal value.
So that's one part that I'm gonna
use when I do validation, but
this validation has to be
done inside JavaScript code.
So we're gonna go to the JavaScript code
to do the validation a short while later.
The second part of the validation that
I'm gonna do is by introducing the span
tag to the select field here,
just below the select element.
I specify ng-show,
invalidChannelSelection.
So if invalidChannelSelection is set
to true, then I'm gonna show this.
Now this invalidChannelSelection
tracks to see whether the user
has selected the appropriate
communication channel to use or not.
If the user does not select,
then the invalidChannelSelection
will be set to true.
Now this has to be handled in JavaScript,
so we're gonna switch to
JavaScript soon to show how this
Boolean variable will be changed,
while doing the validation inside
the controller, in a short while.
The last change that I'm gonna
introduce to this contactus.html
page is to make sure that the bottom
will remain disabled until,
at least, the user has typed in the first
name, the last name, and the email.
So to help me with this
I am taking the help of
Angular's way of tracking whether
the form is valid or invalid.
So for feedbackForm.$invalid, we have
studied this in the lecture earlier.
So I am using that as a way of controlling
whether the ng-disabled will be
applied to the button or not.
The ng-disabled is a directive again.
Now if you apply the ng-disabled
directive to any particular HTML element,
that will be disabled unless
The ng-disabled evaluates to false.
So if this condition to the right of
ng-disabled equaled with this condition
to the right side, evaluates to false,
then the ng-disabled will not be applied.
If this evaluation is true,
then the ng-disabled will be applied.
So which means that this
button will remain disabled
until the feedbackForm becomes valid.
So that way, I'm already preventing the
user from submitting incorrect information
unless the user has typed
in their first name,
the last name, and the email address,
the three required fields in this form.
So that way I'm controlling the errors
that the user can introduce in the forms.
Let's save the changes, and
then we'll switch to app.js,
and then do the validation of the select
element in the JavaScript code.
Switching to the JavaScript
code in app.js.
Now, first thing that I
need to do is that, for
the form, the ngSubmit in the form.
I have specified that if
the submit button is clicked
then it will result in a call
to that same feedback function.
So I have to introduce that function
inside my feedback controller.
So let me go ahead and introduce the
function inside the feedback controller.
So here, you see me introducing
the function in the feedback controller.
Now this function will recall whenever
the user clicks the sendFeedback button.
So the form information
will be submitted here.
Now the console log allows
us to print out information
to the JavaScript inner
console that comes as part
of many of the developer tools that
are included in various browsers.
I'm gonna show that to you in
Chrome in a short while but whether
you use Safari or any other browser, they
might have these developer options, so
check for them with the default
browser that you use.
You must have developer options in them.
And then you can open
the JavaScript console.
So that if my JavaScript is done running
and it needs to generate any output and
if I use console log that information will
be printed out in JavaScript console.
So that's one part.
Now what I am doing here is
that when this function is
executed because the user clicked
on the send feedback button.
I will come in here and
then printout their feedback object
out of the JavaScript console so
that way I can examine what
the feedback object actually contains.
Now this is one way you can do a little
bit of debugging of your JavaScript code.
Also, one more interesting
aspect that Iw ould
like to again emphasize
to you is the parent and
the child controllers and
the inheritance of scope.
Remember that the way we
designed the contact us .html
page is that we had the contact
controller that was controlling
almost the entire body of
the contactus.html page.
Now, part of that, I also gave
control to the feedback controller.
Now since the feedback controller is
nested inside the contact controller
in the web page.
So, the feedback controller automatically
gets access to anything that is on
the scope for the contact controller.
So this is an extra scoping.
So that's why the feedback
controller has complete access to
the feedback object that I created
in the contact controller.
I could as well have taken the term then
put it inside the feedback controller.
But I wanted to illustrate
this interesting aspect
of scope nesting to you.
So that's why I used this approach for
implementing the solution.
The last part that I want
to do with this form is
to make sure that if the user
checks the media contact you
button, then I will force
the user to either select
the either telephone or email for
the channel for communication.
So I'm gonna check the part inside
this send feedback function.
So when the user submits the button.
I'm gonna come in here, and
then check, to ensure that the,
if the, maybe contact you,
check box is checked,
then the user has correctly
selected one of the two options.
So here, I have introduced the code which
I am using for validating that part.
There is no direct way of validating on
the form itself, so that's why I am using
the JavaScript code in the controller
to build a validation.
So I am illustrating two different
ways of doing validation.
One is directly validating things
on the HTML page itself using
the various properties that
Angular supplies for your phone.
The pristine, the invalid,
the valid, and the other properties.
Now here,
the other way of doing validation.
When the information comes
in upon the user clicking
the submit button I can check the
information inside the JavaScript code, so
here I'm checking scope feedback agree,
meaning if the check box for
the agree has been checked by the user and
"scope.feedback.mychannel" is
an empty string, so
that is the second part
that I'm checking here.
So, if it is an empty string,
that means that the user did
not do the selection correctly.
So, in that case, I'm going to set
"scope.invalidChannelSelection" to true.
So if I do that, then I'm going to
go back to the user and say look
you did not submit the, you did not do
the proper selection of the channel.
So please do so.
So the validation is done in this way,
in the code I am checking and
then going back to the user
to remind the user saying,
no, this form is not complete,
make the selection properly.
Now, otherwise the otherwise
part is equally interesting.
So that's the else part.
When you go into the else
part that means that if
the maybe contact you check
box has not been clicked.
Then I don't care about the select option.
But if it is checked, and the user has
already selected one of the two channels,
the telephone or the email.
I am happy.
Then I can go ahead then and
validate the form further.
So in here, I am setting Scope
invalid channel selection to false,
meaning that everything is okay,
no problem.
What I can do now then is at this point
I would be able to do in ajax request and
send the form over to a server.
If I am having a server site that
will accept this information and
then do some changes.
Right now I am not doing that part will
come back to do that in one of the later
exercises.
So, after that has been done,
then I need to clear out the form.
So to do that, I am setting my
feedback object back to its
normal, empty form state.
And then I am also setting
the feedback form.
Set pristine so
when I call this set pristine this
is going to set
the feedback from pristine.
That means that form has
been completely cleared out.
And then I am done.
Okay, so that is the set up steps that I'm
doing in the else part of this statement.
And then also, of course,
note me using the console log to
log information here and there, so
that I can check on the JavaScript
console if my JavaScript code is
correctly getting executed or not.
So this is one way of debugging
your JavaScript code.
Now, let's go back to our webpage, and
then see the form validation in action.
So, I will type in my first name.
My last name, and
contact telephone number, I don't care.
I'll just type in an email
address with just one letter.
Immediately notice how
the formulation kicks in and
says, that is not a valid email address.
S is not a valid email address,
so it's going to check it again.
What is valid and
what is invalid is only to the extent of
the format of the email
address is correct.
It doesn't go to check whether
your email address is correct or
not, it just checks to make sure that
when you type in an email address,
there must be an at sign as part of this
email address somewhere, and the email
address doesn't end with just an at
sign or something with a dot at the end.
So, for
example if I continue on I can say.
Abc.
So note that the validation is still
pushing me to type it correctly.
So I can say @, and the moment I type u,
that is a valid email address.
Okay, so it turns off that validation.
If I keep continuing to type and
then I put a dot there, note
that it again complains, saying that is
not valid, something should end it there.
So that's why it is waiting for
me to do the ending.
So note that validation kicking in.
Bit by bit.
So let me type in the complete address.
Now, if I remove the last name and
try to submit,
note that if I don't type in my last
name my Feedback button is disabled.
I can't click on the button.
But the moment I type in my last name,
even if I type a single character,
look at the Feedback button.
It has now become activated.
So, let me select my last name there.
Now, let's examine how this part works.
Now right now,
the check box is not checked.
So that's why you don't see
the select field up here.
Now, the moment I check the box,
that thing appears immediately.
Now, this is because I am using the NG
show which is controlled
by this check box.
If I check this, then the NG show,
will ensure that this is sure.
If I uncheck it, that goes away.
But if I check it, and
then I don't select it and
I try to submit the form,
let's try to do that.
We are crazy, we are going to try
all errors to see what happens.
If I click on that,
note what the validation has done.
It has come back and said,
look that is not valid.
You need to select one of those options.
Okay.
Now, if I select an option, okay, and then
I submit the form, then it'll get cleared.
Now, if I select an option,
immediately I can go back and check,
although I could implement a bit
more complex code inside my controller
to check for all these things.
I'm a little bit lazy at this moment.
I don't want to confuse
you beyond this point.
Let's hold on there and
then let's type in a few things here.
Now, I'm going to cause
a problem somewhere else.
I'll remove my first name.
Now, if I remove my first name,
it won't allow me to submit.
So, I have to type back in my first name,
and
then if I click on the button,
look what happens.
Now everything is valid.
I have selected the option there, I have
filled out all the required fields there.
If I submit the Send Feedback button,
also note on the right side
that the current state of the JavaScript
object has been displayed correctly.
Let me click on the Send Feedback.
And then,
once I click on the Send Feedback,
the information has been submitted.
The form has been cleared out and
set back to its pristine state.
So this is angular forms and
form validation in action for you.
So in this exercise,
we looked at angular forms,
we looked at how we can use angular
support for forms to enhance
that validation of fonts, and how we can.
Enhance the user experience
using this approach.